docs/using-git.md, before:

# Using Git

## Branches

I went through a few workflows for creating branches. I tried `course/section/summary` but this turns out to be too many branches. Now I am using a branch per course with dashes separating words, all lower case `course-name`

## Commits

**Commit frequency**

Following an answer in Stackoverflow [here](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/a/74765), it recommends to commit every time a new test passes. Here is my guideline:

* When you modify a class or method
* When you refactor something
* When you add/delete/move a lot of files
* When you pass a test

**Commit message**

Use the subject only in one line with a shorter `issue-number` and a total of less than 50 characters (VSC shows a warning for this limit). Follow this template:

    issue-number: Imperative verb then short summary < 50 chars

Such as:

    java-OOP/4: Pass test for add method

Where:

* The issue number follows `branch/section_number`
* Then a colon `:`
* Action verb. For example `Pass`
* Then a summary in less than 50 characters

## Creating branches

**CLI**

    (main)$ git checkout -b branch-name 
    (react-BMP)$ git add .
    (react-BMP)$ git commit -m "Subject line"
    (react-BMP)$ git push -u origin branch-name

In GitHub create a PR and merge with main. If updating local main then:

    (react-BMP)$ git checkout main
    (main)$ git pull

**IntelliJ/PyCharm**

* Bottom right, click on `main`, click New Branch
* Make changes
* Left margin, click on tab `commit`
* Select files under Changes and Unversioned files
* Enter a message. Subject line, empty line, Body of commit
* Click Commit
* Top menu Git/Push

**VSC**

* Bottom left
* Click current branch
* On the overlay popup. Create new branch. Enter a name, press Enter.

## Made changes to wrong branch before committing

As seen in StackOverflow [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7217894/moving-changed-files-to-another-branch-for-check-in). Use `git stash`.

	# worked on code...oops wrong branch, didn't commit yet
	git stash
	git checkout correct-branch
	git stash pop

The answer says that there is no need to use `stash` and instead use `git checkout -b correct-branch`. However, this doesn't work on the IntelliJ UI.

## Update local branch with remote main

**Terminal**

	git checkout my-branch
	git rebase origin/main

If rebase can't be done:

	git checkout main
	git pull
	git checkout my-branch
	git merge main

**IntelliJ**

This doesn't work as expected. Pending review later.

1. Go to `main` branch
2. Top menu `Git/pull`
3. Navigate to `my-branch` drop down menu
4. Select `rebase main to my-branch`
5. Switch to `my-branch`

Commit message:

learning: Update readme and docs

docs/using-git.md, after:

# Using Git

## Workflow Summary

1. Work on a branch (named after course/topic folder name)
   1. Don't modify files that don't belong to the branch/course/topic
   2. Don't forget to switch branches to commit to different course/topic
2. Commit frequently
   1. Commit the changes in the branch before switching branches
3. Push all branches to remote
4. In remote, PR and merge all branches
5. Back in local, rebase all branches
   1. Switch to branch, then `git rebase origin/main`

## Branches

Use a branch per course/topic (same as the corresponding folder name).

* With dashes separating words
* All lower case `course-name`

## Commits

**Commit frequency**

Commit frequently on the corresponding branch. Don't update files that don't belong to the branch.

* When you modify a class or method
* When you refactor something
* When you add/delete/move a lot of files
* When you pass a test
* When you create/update documentation

**Commit message**

Use the subject only in one line with a shorter `issue-number` and a total of less than 50 characters (VSC shows a warning for this limit). Follow this template:

    issue-number: Imperative verb then short summary < 50 chars

Such as:

    java-OOP/4: Pass test for add method

Where:

* The issue number follows `branch/section_number`
* Then a colon `:`
* Action verb. For example `Pass`
* Then a summary in less than 50 characters

## Creating branches

**CLI**

    (main)$ git checkout -b branch-name 
    (branch-name)$ git add .
    (branch-name)$ git commit -m "Subject line"
    (branch-name)$ git push -u origin branch-name

In GitHub create a PR and merge with main. If updating local main then:

    (branch-name)$ git checkout main
    (main)$ git pull

**IntelliJ/PyCharm**

* Bottom right, click on `main`, click New Branch
* Make changes
* Left margin, click on tab `commit`
* Select files under Changes and Unversioned files
* Enter a message. Subject line, empty line, Body of commit
* Click Commit
* Top menu Git/Push

**VSC**

* Bottom left
* Click current branch
* On the overlay popup. Create new branch. Enter a name, press Enter.

## Made changes to wrong branch before committing

As seen in StackOverflow [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7217894/moving-changed-files-to-another-branch-for-check-in). Use `git stash`.

	# worked on code...oops wrong branch, didn't commit yet
	git stash
	git checkout correct-branch
	git stash pop

The answer says that there is no need to use `stash` and instead use `git checkout -b correct-branch`. However, this doesn't work on the IntelliJ UI.

## Update local branch with remote main

**Terminal**

	git checkout my-branch
	git rebase origin/main

If rebase can't be done:

	git checkout main
	git pull
	git checkout my-branch
	git merge main

**IntelliJ**

This doesn't work as expected. I asked in StackOverflow [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/75355160/how-to-update-local-branch-with-remote-main-in-intellij), however, one answer didn't work, and the other wasn't related to IntelliJ, just recommended to use the terminal.

1. Go to `main` branch
2. Top menu `Git/pull`
3. Navigate to `my-branch` drop down menu
4. Select `rebase main to my-branch`
5. Switch to `my-branch`
